Our query service has a little bit of scaffolding put together, so now we need to make sure that it
can receive events of type post created in combat created.
Whenever we get post created, we're going to save the post.
Whenever we get comment created, we're going to save the comment with the associated post.
The first thing we have to do back over here is decide on a data structure to use to save all these
posts and comments.
We're going to once again use a.
Simple object to store all to posts and comments.
Let me very quickly give you an example of what this object is going to look like eventually so you
don't have to write this code out.
This is a quick example of what post is going to look like.
So post will be equal eventually to having an object full of some keys.
And for every one of these keys, we're going to have the ID of the post.
So that would be identical to the ID right there.
It will have the title, The Post.
And it will have an array of comments associated with this.
And of course, every comment will have its own ID.
And some content.
Like so.
So over time, as users add in more post to our application, we would have say a second post and then
a third post and so on.
So again, that's what this post object is going to look like.
So we just need to make sure that as we receive all these different events, we insert data into this
post object with the appropriate structure.
So inside of our post two events right here, we're going to take a look at that rec object.
Remember, the rec body property is going to be the event itself that we actually care about.
So let's take a look at that event.
Remember that every event that we create has a type.
And a data property will pull that out of record body.
We will then set up a very simple series of if statements to take a look at that type.
So we'll say if type is equal to.
Host created.
Now let's go ahead and run some code.
Or if type is equal to.
Comment related.
We'll do something entirely different.
So let's handle post created first.
If it's equal to post created that we want to take the ID.
And the title out of data because remember with post created that event is always going to have an ID
and a title and we're going to insert that information into our post object.
We'll say posts at ID is going to be equal to an object of ID and title.
And that should be it.
We'll probably also want to default the value of comments to be an empty arrays as well, so that later
on, whenever someone emits an event of comment created and we receive that, we don't have to worry
about creating that array or anything like that.
Now let's handle a event of type comet created.
Remember, an event of type common created is going to have slightly different structure to it.
It's going to have an ID, a content and a post ID.
So let's pull that information out, say ID content and post ID.
So we will find the appropriate posts inside of our post object.
Aussie accounts post is posts at post ID.
Well then take a look at post dot comments and we'll push in this new comment.
So our new comment is going to have a given ID and some content.
And that should be it.
And of course, at the very bottom here, after we have processed the events, there still is a route
handler.
So we need to make sure that we send back some kind of response.
So we'll do a scent of just an empty object to say, Hey, we received the event and processed it.
And finally, let's go back up to our post End Point.
And any time someone tries to get the collection of all the posts that we have, we'll just send back
the entire post object.
We'll do a resent of posts.
And that should be it.
So let's save this.
I'm going to go back over to my terminal.
You'll notice I've changed the layout here just to make sure everything is a bit more legible.
So the order now is the React app.
Those comments query empty and the event bus right here.
So we're going to try to create a new post and a comment.
And we're right now just going to make sure that we don't see any errors coming out of this window right
here, because that's where our query service is running.
We're not actually using the query service inside the React application just yet.
Again, I just want to make sure we don't have any errors.
Okay.
So I'm going to flip back over to the React application.
I'm going to enter in a title new post.
I'll refresh and I'll add in some comment to that post and refresh.
Well, everything over here still works totally expected because we haven't made any change to really
any existing code just yet.
And if I go back to my terminal window, it looks like the query service is running successfully as
well.
Of course, we can't really see any data.
We can't really verify that it's receiving these events or processing them correctly.
I'll tell you what.
How about after we process an event inside of our query service?
After we run these two if statements, let's just print out the current data structure or the current
collection that we have.
Yes.
I'll save this.
I'm going to go back over again.
I'll enter in a second post.
And refresh.
And then a second comment and submit.
And now if I go back over to my terminal, I should see the appropriate data being reflected inside
of my query service.
Take a look at that.
We've got two separate console logs.
The first one was from receiving the event of post created and it looks like we receive that post and
add it to our post collection.
And the second console log right here is from creating the comment.
So there's the exact same post.
There is our list of comments and you can see that there is a object inside that array.
It's being abbreviated right now.
Just because Node, when it prints out a nested data structure or nested object, doesn't want to recursively
print out everything inside there at a insane depth.
So chances are the correct comment is inside there.
We just can't really see it effectively using this tool just yet.
All right.
Well, I'd say that this looks pretty good.
So in theory, our query service now has all the data that is required to get the entire list of posts
and all the associated comments.
So now the last thing we have to do is update our React application and make sure that the React application
will make a request to this endpoint to get this data structure right here, pass it, and then use
that structure to list out all the posts and comments.
So let's take a quick pause right here and then start to work on the React app in just a moment.